---
layout: post
title: black lives matter
---

In writing this, I'm relinquishing myself of my thoughts and feelings on the civil rights movement against violence, and systemic racism against black people. As a forenote, it's relevant to state that I'm in full agreement with the movement's philosophy, in its entirety do I believe that black people should not have to clash with racial contention solely resulting from the bias of an authoritative figure, regardless of whether there is a statistical, or empirical imperative to lead to such behaviour.

These are my views, obviously, and I myself regard them with the most scepticism, but it is what I have reasoned about through my exploration in Marxist thought, and modern-day events. I do not give utmost credence to these thoughts, but I do give a portal through my mind.

Thus, in light of the recent protests, and under the cloudiness of proceeding riots, the question is begged in contrasting the largely insensitive, and exteriorly hypocritical behaviour that ensued (and is ensuing) in the riots. It becomes immediately obvious to any onlooker that when there are (amongst) two coaligned forces--spawned from the same antecedent, and lead mostly by alleged shareholders in fair civil rights for black people--and yet there are conflicting consequences of each force's application, something must've gone wrong?

Something must've gone wrong. And in analysing this foil prerogative, I propose two onlooks: the simplistic and superficial, and the view that there is much more grounded in the basis of the riots--influenced, inadvertently, for pushing an agenda that is perhaps not formally understood by those participating.

I will begin with the simplest view, to also motivate further thought, though not much, since this is what is immediately obvious (to me). The riots are subdivided by two mutual, but distinctly motivated people; firstly, the looters, the people seeking a materialistic gain through exploitation of both the ongoing pandemic, and through the helplessness of authority. Secondly, the vandals, pyros, terrorists, or whatever you'd call those taking a much more active position in the riots, farther on the end of criminality.

Simply, in this view, the rioters are out for opportunistic gain, and it does follow by fair reason for people to do so, e.g. those that were raised in poverty, or under the predisposition of being black, and in so, being stereotypically disadvantaged. It doesn't, however, follow from my reasoning that black people are innately cultured towards looting, rather that their cultural influences, and the implicit racial stereotype instills this value (resulting from the same systemic racism?)

In more Marxist-esque nomenclature, it can be described that the proletarian/lumpenproletarian intraclass divide begins to unify within the subcommunity of black people, whenever systemic racism has already engraved its values of racially-motivated behavioural distinctions; and in such thought, it becomes less the fault of blacks, but rather the influence of the bourgeois, or of the past bourgeois, on the present-day society.

And so, those who've been predetermined to be criminals, or lesser in social status (inherent from the older society's values), follow in such footsteps. Again, not by sole thought of the black minority themselves, but by complicity of the systemic racism in the ephemerally-developed progressive society. After all, the USA's acceptance of LGBTQ+ communities, and persons, is still a relatively new progression, despite the campaign against systemic racism having spanned only a decade and some half before the first modern LGBTQ+ movement.

Tough, why blame the bourgeois? It's important to know I only seek to blame the haute bourgeois, because it is only in the very epitome of their intentions that black people would suffer enslavement before the industrialization during the early-mid 1800s, and it is only the in the very magnitude of their grasp on the economy that lesser bourgeois classes should not take the ultimate blame.

It is well-known, and presupposed that we're aware of the economic structure that the USA had at that time (ca., transatlantic slave trades), that is of capitalism. Additionally, it should be further known that the USA's primary export market was agriculture, hence the necessity of slaves picking cotton. The context of the slave trade is a remorseful topic in itself, but by the end, and in short, the bourgeois class would decide to take these slaves in as labourers, and milk them of capital. Inasmuch as the bourgeois accepted the slaves, it should clearly deem the beginning, or at least, renaissance of systemic racism within the USA.

With this objectification of black people by the branch of capitalism (literally), moreso than the white proletariat, it arose to the value that black people were lesser in social value, despite slavery having provided to a(n arguably) substantial portion of the USA's economic wealth at the time, by semi-industrializing agriculture with its own "machines." And so, if we envision black people as machines, nothing but to be exploited, as they were, more explicitly so than the proletariat is in present, and was then, it demonstrates a crude picture of black people, lest the people were to think they were all actually the only cogs in the framework of capitalism.

I don't necessarily intend to say that black people were a distraction to the USA against the inherent evil in capitalism, but I do suppose that they were certainly a way to divide the whites and blacks, to develop a subclass between the proletarians, to thus quasi-bourgeoisify the white proletarian. Thus, the haute bourgeois sponsored slavery, and the proletarians divided themselves under a guise of greed, or a lust for one's own power. Naturally so, because it can't be refuted that the black people were not productive members of the labour force.

So and so it became that an American would view the black person with contempt of society, as an object whose only value was to further proponent the American market into succession.

Then, we arrive at the abolition of slavery, no longer was the slave to be an object of ones capitalization, but rather a human, with rights to freedom, and to living. Though, the only issue was that once entirely emancipated, the slaves had nowhere to go, they had no capital themselves, they were just as that of a baby born into a new world. Unaware, scared, and innocent. With the burning passion for the white man.

It continues that the black people picked themselves up by their bootstraps (of which they had none to begin with), and created prosperous towns, with the primary resource of oil being excavated, in a large quantity, at that. And so, the black man thrived in his own dwelling, by the fruit of his own labour. Yet, the white man came again, to destroy these establishments, in a racially motivated feud against the black man. It cannot be left to wonder why the black man has always had a margin between the white man in society, in terms of modern day culture, and modern day stereotype.

Progressivism brought us together, somewhat, at the very least we were united by our thoughts for once, truly. Followed by the interim between the time in which the civil rights movement sprung, and to the modern day protests and riots. Though, the only change we find this time is that the black man has the political freedom, and social liberty to express his view, and to defend it with his passion. It may seem so senseless for a black man to destroy what was built by another black man, in the hopes for a revolution, or an outreach to the bourgeois class, in hopes of undermining their structure, but it is this hypocrisy and irony that we rest our foundations on to begin with.

We give the black man his freedom, but give him no land; we give the black man his confines, and we pillage his wealth; we give the black man social equality, but then demonstrate the same, old, systemic racism, to this day. It would be incomparable to say we've come full circle, but I believe that we've come no closer to coming full circle in our level of thought, and progressivism, than by this time.

Thanks.
